{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16000\viewh13440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 As part of the 2013\'9614 budget proposed by Gov. Dayton and passed by the Minnesota Legislature, cities were slated to receive an $80 million boost in Local Government Aid (LGA) for the 2014\'9615 budget year. Last week, the Minnesota Department of Revenue notified city halls across the state about how much LGA they would be receiving in 2014.\
\
The map below visualizes the amount of 2014 LGA going to cities in Minnesota per capita (population based on the 2010 census): the larger the circle, the more the city is set to receive per resident in LGA. The cities are also divided into three categories by color: red for small cities with populations less than 2,500, blue for medium cities between 2,500 and 10,000 residents, and green for large cities, with more than 10,000 residents.\
\
MAP [?]\
\
[LEGEND]\
\
How are LGA distributions determined? First, the Department of Revenue determines a city's funding "need," using formulas based on population. For small cities of less than 2,500 residents, need is a per capita amount starting at $410 per resident and going up to $630 per capita as the city size increases. For medium cities with between 2,500 and 10,000 residents, need is determined by the percent of the city\'92s housing stock built before 1940, the average household size and population decline (percentage) from the city\'92s peak population of the last 40 years. For the largest cities, with more than 10,000 residents, need is determined by: the number of jobs per capita, age of housing stock (defined as the percent of housing built before 1940), the percent of housing built between 1940 and 1970 and a sparsity adjustment for cities with less than 150 residents per square mile.\
\
With need determined, Revenue considers a city's capacity by multiplying the city\'92s tax base by the statewide average tax rate. If there is a gap \'97 if the calculated need exceeds a city's capacity \'97 some percentage of that gap will be filled with LGA. The percentage of the gap that is filled is the same for all cities receiving LGA in a given year.\
\
For more detail on the 2014 LGA distributions, see the table below. It contains each city's 2010 Census population, their 2013 LGA amount, their 2014 amount, the difference and percent change between the two years, the LGA per capita and the LGA increase per capita. The table is color-coded to match the map: small cities are red, medium cities blue and large cities green. The table can be sorted by clicking on any of the column headings, and you can search the data using the text box at right.\
\
TABLE\
\
Source: [PDF]\
\
You can also download the data as a CSV.}